Theatrum Orbis Terrarum translates to "Theatre of the World" and is considered to be the first true modern atlas. It was created in 1570 by flemish cartographer Abraham Ortelius. This mod tries to bring its look and feel to Europa Universalis IV.

Works with EU4 1.30.* | Ironman compatible | Achievement compatible | No checksum change


Features:

    Borders, seamless terrain textures, recolored trees, recolored rivers, unique fog of war, pause banner, map font, Interface fonts
    Terra Incognita with pictures from the actual atlas
    Trade routes and arrows, slim occupation lines, straits, unreachable trade nodes checkers
    Dark unit shields, shield and flag overlay, great power symbols and shields, movement arrows, selected unit indicator, fort symbols
    Map lighting, water, dynamic transparency for colored map modes and some other things
    Extremely customizable
    Improves performance 


Opacity Add-Ons (pick one)

Add-On: More Opacity
Makes the mapmodes a bit more colorful and reduces dynamic transparency.

Add-On: Medium Opacity
Makes the mapmodes more colorful and has just a little dynamic transparency. (more colorful than "More Opacity" but less colorful than "Even More Opacity")

Add-On: Even More Opacity
Makes the mapmodes much more colorful and has almost no dynamic transparency.


Water Add-Ons (pick either none, Blue or Deep Blue - "Dark water" darkens any of the three water colors)

Add-On: Blue Water
Changes the water to light blue.

Add-On: Deep Blue Water
Changes the water to deep blue.

Add-On: Dark Water
Turns the water dark. Can be combined with other water Add-Ons.


Other Add-Ons (can be used in any combination)

Add-On: Dark Borders
Dark country borders. Contains 9 different country border styles to choose from.

Add-On: Dynamic Borders
Province borders, state borders and sea borders fade out when zooming out. Country borders become more visible and dark when zooming out.

Add-On: Warm Colors
Slightly warmer color temperature


Interface Font Add-Ons

Theatrum Orbis Terrarum - Interface Fonts

Theatrum Orbis Terrarum - Fraktur Interface Fonts


Add-Ons that change checksum (no achievements possible)

Add-On: Random New World
If you want to use this mod with a Random New World, you'll need to install the RNW Add-On. (disables achievements)

Add-On: Flat Map
Subscribe to this for a completely flat map. (disables achievements)



This is a complete overhaul of the map, the GUI and many other things. Therefore any other mod that modifies the map, the GUI or water is NOT compatible.

List of known compatible mods and mod types:

    Custom Flag Symbols
    Roma Universalis
    Extended Timeline
    All flag mods
    Mods that change the unit sprites
    Loading screens
    Event pictures (like the Chapel) 


Compatibility Patches

    Theatrum Orbis Terrarum for MEIOU & Taxes
    Standalone version of "Theatrum Orbis Terrarum (Carthoge Reloaded)" for M&T


Notes:

    Turning off Post Effects in the option menu will lead to a slightly different look. (a bit darker, no season effects, even less shadows)
    You can turn off the trees in in the option menu


Special Thanks to

    Ryvoin for the basic terrain and water textures.
    Negi for the magic code that makes transparency dynamic and his effort on porting it to 1.19 
